The Star Wars
by
George Lucas



Rough Draft [First of four major screenplay drafts]
Lucasfilm Ltd.
5/74

1.  FADE IN:

SPACE

A sea of stars is broken by the vast blue surface of the planet, Utapau.  Five
small moons slowly drift into view from the far side of the planet.  The main
titles are followed by a roll-up:

Until the recent Great Rebellion, the Jedi Bendu were the most feared warriors
in the universe.  For one hundred thousand years, generations of Jedi
perfected their art as the personal bodyguards of the emperor.  They were the
chief architects of the invincible Imperial Space Force which expanded the
Empire across the galaxy, from the celestial equator to the farthest reaches
of the Great Rift.

Now these legendary warriors are all but extinct.  One by one they have been
hunted down and destroyed as enemies of the New Empire by a ferocious and
sinister rival warrior sect, the Knights of Sith.

A small silver spacecraft emerges from behind one of the Utapau moons.  The
deadly little fightercraft speeds past several of the moons, until it finally
goes into orbit around the fourth moon.

2.  WASTELAND - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

A harsh gale blows across the bleak grey surface of the Fourth Moon.  The
leaden sky presses down on a lone figure, Annikin Starkiller, a tall, heavy-
set boy of eighteen.  He slowly makes his way across the canyon floor.  The
heavy winds whip at him and make the going extremely difficult.  His face is
covered by a breath mask and goggles.  He stops for a second to adjust the
shoulder strap on his chrome multiplelaser rifle.  Something in the sky
catches his eye, and he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from
his belt.  He stands transfixed for a few moments, studying the heavens, then
turns and rushes back in the direction from which he came.

3.  SUPPLY HUT - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

A spacecraft, half buried in the dust, rests next to the remains of an
abandoned supply shack.  Annikin makes his way across the colorless landscape
and rushes into the crumbling building.  The interior of the hut is shabby,
but manages to abate the howling winds.  Seated in front of a thermoheater are
Annikin's father, Kane, and his young brother, Deak.  Kane is a large, burly
man, wearing the distinctive robes of a Jedi.  Deak is ten years old, with
dusty blond hair and a large scratch on his cheek.  Annikin slams the door and
removes his gear.  His ruggedly handsome face is caked with many layers of
dust.

ANNIKIN
Dad!  Dad!...They've found us!

Deak looks up from a small cube he has been studying.  His father whacks him
across the shoulder with a braided wire connector.

KANE
Continue with the problem.  Your concentration is worse than your brother's.
(to Annikin) How many?

ANNIKIN
Only one this time.  A Banta Four.

KANE
Good.  We may not have to repair this old bucket after all.  Prepare yourself.

DEAK
Me too!

KANE
Do you have the answer?

DEAK
I think it's the Corbet dictum:  "What is, is without."

Kane smiles.  This is the correct answer.  Annikin is strapping on a utility
belt with chrome laserpistols and lasersword.  Kane rises and starts for his
equipment.

DEAK (Con't)
Ahhh, Pop...

KANE
Deak, do you feel you're ready?

DEAK
Yes, sir.  I've outmarked Annikin in twelve disciplines.  I'm as good...

KANE
All right, son, get your gear.

Deak jumps up with the enthusiasm available only to a ten-year-old and grabs
his gear.  His father frowns and shakes his head.

4.  WASTELAND BLUFF - FOURTH MOON - UTAPAU

Kane Starkiller and his two sons carefully make their way up a rock bluff
overlooking the parked silver Sith spacecraft.  Kane inspects the craft with
his electrobinoculars.

KANE
No tracks.  Bi-lock hasn't been opened....Interior systems are still on....

ANNIKIN
Are we going to wait for him to come out?

KANE
He's not in there....He's baiting us.  I'm surprised they only sent one this
time.  We must be wearing them down, or they must think this knight is
something special....Stay on guard, and keep hidden.  I'm going to work my way
across the ridge and call his bluff.  Better we meet in open combat than wait
for him to ambush us....Keep your guard!

Kane leaves his two sons and  moves off along the obscured ridge.  Annikin and
Deak watch him intently.  Annikin throws down his multiplelaser rifle in
disgust.

ANNIKIN
He should have let me go with him....He's getting too old to make an open
challenge.

DEAK
He's not too old to realize you'd just get in the way.

Annikin ignores his little brother's remark and sneaks a look over the ridge
at the Sith spacecraft.  Kane moves out of the rocks some distance away and
starts toward the starship.  Deak moves to the ridge next to his brother, his
chrome laserrifle sparkling in the reflected light of Utapau.

DEAK
He's making his move....

ANNIKIN
Watch your guard...and cover that weapon.  It shines like a beacon.

Deak reluctantly move away and watches the other direction.  Kane has almost
reached the Sith spacecraft and still there is no sign of its occupant.

DEAK
What's happening?

ANNIKIN
Nothing.  I don't like it.
